So now let's expand our usage of intensity beyond looking at just individual images.
We can ask, do all images with the same label have the same intensity profiles?
In other words, is there something inherent to
an image label in its intensity distribution?
You can see here,
all of these images of healthy lungs have the label
No Finding and the intensity distributions are below for the images.
At first glance, we may think that they look nothing alike,
but let's take a closer look.
Do you see that the peak intensity,
aside from the background,
which is zero, is around 160-180 on the x-axis for each image?
In addition to that,
each image has another small peak,
somewhere between 200 and 225.
One final thing to note is that the distributions seem to have very different heights,
but when you look more closely at the y-axis,
you'll notice that the peaks of each, again,
around 160-180, are actually all about 1,100-1,800 pixels.
The plot on the right is the one that's the most misleading here
and that's because of the huge spike at intensity zero.
Where is this coming from?
If we go back to the image,
we see that the image on the right has a black border around it.
This may seem small,
but all of those pixels add up.
Since the image backgrounds are black,
all images have some spike around intensity zero.
But the border on the right one is making the number of pixels
much higher and causing that spike at zero.
There are some other things that you can do to play with intensity.
You can compare intensity profiles of images with different labels.
So for example, disease versus no disease.
You can compare intensity profiles of different sections of an image,
such as the center pixels versus a different part of the image,
like the lower third,
and you can also normalize images to bring their intensity values closer to zero.
This just means subtracting the image mean from
every pixel and dividing every pixel by the pixel standard intensity value.
In Lesson 3, we will cover more about preprocessing images.